Rework 6th chapter (#56)
0xAX/asm: content/asm_6.md

|       0.40 * 2 |   0.80 |             0 |            0.80 |
|       0.80 * 2 |   1.60 |             1 |            0.60 |
|       0.60 * 2 |   1.20 |             1 |            0.20 |
|       0.20 * 2 |   0.40 |             0 |            0.40 |
|       0.40 * 2 |   0.80 |             0 |            0.80 |
|       0.80 * 2 |   1.60 |             1 |            0.60 |
|       0.60 * 2 |   1.20 |             1 |            0.20 |

We may see that starting from the step `5` (or first four bits `1001`), the pattern `0011` repeats forever. Such repeatable part we will write down in brackets. So for example, the number `5.575` we will write in binary form as `101.1001(0011)`. The interesting fact - if we will try to convert this binary number back to decimal representation, we will end up with slight different number than our original number. That's why every floating-point number in a computer is just an approximation of the original value. Because of this you may now understand the well known example - let's try to ask [Python](https://www.python.org/) to do the simple compilation:

```
>>> 0.1 + 0.2
0.30000000000000004

# Or

>>> 0.2 + 0.4
0.6000000000000001
```

> After we converted both integral and fractional parts of our number to binary representation, we can go to the next step. We need to convert to [scientific notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_notation). The first part we need to [shift right](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logical_shift) the integral part of our number so that only `1` will remain. In a case of our number `101` - we need to shift right the number 2 times. As the result our initial number `101.101` started to be represented as `1.01101 * 2^2`. After this we need to add the number of shifts we done to the special number called - `bias`. For single-precision floating-point numbers it is equal to `127`. So we will get - `2 + 127 = 129` or `0b10000001`. This will be our `exponent`. The `mantissa` is just the fractional part of the number that we got after shifting it. We just put all the number of the fractional parts to the 23 `mantissa` bits.

Reviewer: Parts that are not understandable:
- Where this one comes from: `2^2`
- Where this one comes from and it means: `0b10000001`

If we will combine all together, we may see how our number `5.625` will be represented in a computer memory:

| Sign | Exponent | Mantissa                |
|------|----------|-------------------------|
|     0| 10000001 | 01101000000000000000000 |

If the fractional part of the number is periodic as we have seen with the example of the number `5.575` - we will fill the `mantissa` bits while it is possible. So the number `5.575` will be represented in a computer memory as:

| Sign | Exponent | Mantissa                |
|------|----------|-------------------------|

> |     0| 10000001 | 01100100110011001100110 |

Reviewer: I do not understand why this table is different from the one above :(

> Now we know how computer represents a floating point number with a single-precision 🎉 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we know how a computer represents a floating point number with a single-precision 🎉 
```

### Double and double-extended precision formats

> As you may guess, the representation of the floating-point numbers using the double-precision and double-extended precision formats is similar to the single-precision format and the difference is only accuracy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you may guess, the representation of floating-point numbers using the double-precision and double-extended precision formats is similar to the single-precision format, and the only difference is accuracy.
```

> The double-precision format is `64-bits` of memory with the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The double-precision format uses `64-bits` of memory and has the following structure:
```

Reviewer: How much is it for single-precision format?

> - sign - 1 bit
> - exponent - 11 bit
> - mantissa - 52 bit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sign - 1 bit
- Exponent - 11 bit
- Mantissa - 52 bit
```

> The extended-double precision format is `80-bits` of memory with the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extended-double precision format uses `80-bits` of memory and has the following structure:
```

> - sign - 1 bit
> - exponent - 15 bit
> - mantissa - 112 bit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sign - 1 bit
- Exponent - 15 bit
- Mantissa - 112 bit
```

Reviewer: Are these values correct? Shouldn't they sum up to give 80? (that was the case for double-precision format).

> The `bias` for the double-precision format is `1023`. The `bias` for the extended-double precision is `16383`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `bias` for the double-precision format is `1023`. The `bias` for the extended-double precision format is `16383`.
```

In the next sections we will take a look at some of these instructions. Of course, we will not cover all the instructions supported by the modern CPUs. For more information, read the Intel [Software Developer Manual](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/intel-sdm.html).

The calling conventions for floating-point numbers is different. If a function parameter is a floating-point number - it will be passed in one of `XMM` registers - the first argument will be passed in the `xmm0` register, the second argument will be passed in `xmm1` register and so on up till `xmm7`. The rest of arguments after eights argument are passed on the [stack](./asm_3.md). The value of the functions that return a floating-point value is stored in the `xmm0` register.

### Data transfer instructions

As we know from the [4th part](./asm_4.md) - data transfer instructions are used to move data between different locations. `x86_64` CPU provides special set of instructions for transfer of floating point data. If you are going to use the `x87 FPU` unit, one of the most common data transfer instructions are:

- `fld` - Load floating point value.

> - `fst` - Store floating point value.

Author: it is instruction, so yes

These instructions are used by the `x87 FPU` unit to store and load the floating-point numbers at/from the stack.

To work with `XMM` registers, the following data transfer instructions are supported by an `x86_64` CPU:

- `movss` - Move single-precision floating-point value between the `XMM` registers or between an `XMM` register and memory,
- `movsd` - Move double-precision floating-point value between the `XMM` registers or between an `XMM` register and memory.
- `movhlps` - Move two packed single-precision floating-point values from the high quadword of an `XMM` register to the low quadword of another `XMM` register.
- `movlhps` - Move two packed single-precision floating-point values from the low quadword of an `XMM` register to the high quadword of another `XMM` register.

> - And others.

Author: Can we add something here to not have impressions that there are just four of them?

### Floating-point arithmetic instructions

> The floating-point arithmetic instructions perform arithmetic operations such as add, subtract, multiplication, and division on single or double precision floating-point values. The following floating-point arithmetic instructions exist:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The floating-point arithmetic instructions perform arithmetic operations, such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, on single or double-precision floating-point values. The following floating-point arithmetic instructions exist:
```

- `addss` - Add single-precision floating-point values.

> - `addsd` - Add dobule-precision floating point values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `addsd` - Add double-precision floating point values.
```

- `subss` - Subtract single-precision floating-point values.
- `subsd` - Subtract double-precision floating-point values.
- `mulss` - Multiply single-precision floating-point values.
- `mulsd` - Multiply double-precision floating-point values.
- `divss` - Divide single-precision floating-point values. 

> - `divsd` - Divide double-precision floating-point values.

Reviewer: ... or 3rd person singular? (`-s`)

> All of these instructions expects two operands to execute the given operation of addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division. After the operation will be executed, the result will be stored in the first operand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these instructions expect two operands to execute the given operation of addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division. After the operation is executed, the result is stored in the first operand.
```

> ### Floating-Point control instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Floating-point control instructions
```

> As we already know, the main goal of this type of instructions is to manage the control flow of our programs. For the integer comparison we have seen the `cmp` instruction. But this instruction will not work with floating-point values. Although, the result of the comparison is controlled by the same `rflags` registers that we have seen in the [4th part](./asm_4.md#Control transfer instructions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we already know, the main goal of these instructions is to manage the control flow of our programs. For integer comparisons, we used the `cmp` instruction. But this instruction does not work with floating-point values, even though the result of the comparison is controlled by the same `rflags` registers that we saw in the [Data manipulation](./asm_4.md#Control transfer instructions) chapter.
```

> The general instruction to compare floating-point numbers is `cmpss`.

Reviewer: I'd join it with the previous paragraph, as it is closely related. Also... isn't any information missing? Seems like this section ended too suddenly.

Our main goal now is to print the prompt which will invite a user to type some floating point values, convert these values from the string to the floating-point numbers and store them in the buffer which will represent our first vector. Let's take a look at the code:

```assembly
;; Read the first input string with floating-point values
_read_first_float_vector:
        ;; Set the length of the prompt string to print.
        mov rdx, FIRST_INPUT_MSG_LEN
        ;; Specify the system call number (1 is `sys_write`).
        mov rax, SYS_WRITE
        ;; Set the first argument of `sys_write` to 1 (`stdout`).
        mov rdi, STD_OUT
        ;; Set the second argument of `sys_write` to the reference of the prompt string to print.
        mov rsi, FIRST_INPUT_MSG
        ;; Call the `sys_write` system call.
        syscall

>         ;; Set the length of string we want to read from the standard input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; Set the length of the string we want to read from the standard input.
```

        mov rdx, BUFFER_SIZE
        ;; Specify the system call number (0 is `sys_read`)
        mov rdi, SYS_READ
        ;; Set the first argument of `sys_read` to 0 (`stdin`)
        mov rax, STD_IN
        ;; Set the second argument of `sys_read` to the reference of the buffer where we will
        ;; read the data for the vector.
        mov rsi, buffer_1
        ;; Call the `sys_read` system call.
        syscall

        ;; Save the number of bytes we have read from the standard input in the rcx register.
        mov rcx, rax
        ;; Set the pointer to the beginning of the buffer with the input data to the rdx register.
        mov rdx, buffer_1

>         ;; Move pointer within the buffer to the end of input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; Move the pointer within the buffer to the end of input.
```

        add rdx, rcx
        ;; Fill the last byte of the input with 0.
        mov byte [rdx], 0
```

> The code starts from the already familiar to us call of the `sys_write` system call. We use it to write a prompt string `Input first vector: ` to the terminal. After this line is printed, we execute the `sys_read` system call to read the user input. If we will take a look at the definition of this system call, we will see that it expects to get three parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As usual, the code starts from the `sys_write` system call. We use it to write a prompt string `Input first vector: ` to the terminal. After this line is printed, we execute the `sys_read` system call to read the user input. If we take a look at the definition of this system call, we will see that it expects three arguments:
```

```C
ssize_t read(int fd, void buf[.count], size_t count);
```

The parameters are:

> - A file descriptor which identifies file that we want to read the data from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A file descriptor that identifies the file from which we want to read the data
```

- The buffer where the data that we have read will be stored
- Number of bytes that we want to read

> You may see that we specify all of these parameters before calling of the `sys_read` in our code according to the **calling conventions** specified in the [System V Application Binary Interface](https://refspecs.linuxbase.org/elf/x86_64-abi-0.99.pdf). If you already forgot the details, you can read this document or the [second part](./asm_2.md) of this notes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, we specify all these parameters before calling `sys_read` according to the **calling conventions** specified in the [System V Application Binary Interface](https://refspecs.linuxbase.org/elf/x86_64-abi-0.99.pdf). If this sounds unfamiliar, read the linked document or go back to the [second chapter](./asm_2.md) of this assembler course.
```

> After this code will be executed, our buffer specified by the `buffer_1` name, will contain the user input. Now we have the line that a user passed to our program, the next goal is to convert each value represented by the string from the input to the floating-point values and store them in a separate buffer. But before we can do it, we need to do one more action. The user input will contain the `newline` symbol in the end. We don't need it in our input as we can't convert it to a floating point number. To get rid of this symbol - we just replace it with the `0` byte. To do that we need just know the length of the user-input. The good news that we already know it. If you will take a look at the documentation of the `sys_read` system call, you may see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After executing the code, the buffer specified by the `buffer_1` name will contain the user input. The next goal is to convert each value represented by the string from the input to floating-point values and store them in a separate buffer. But before, we need to do one more thing. 

The user input contains the `newline` symbol at the end. We don't need it in our input, as we can't convert it to a floating-point number. To get rid of this symbol, we replace it with the `0` byte. To do that, we need to know the length of the user input. The good news is that we already know it. Take a look at the documentation of the `sys_read` system call:
```

> On success, the number of bytes read is returned

> As you may remember, the return value of a system call is stored in the `rax` register. To write the zero byte into the buffer right after the user input, we just need to take the pointer to the beginning of this buffer, add offset to it equal to the length of the user-input and write `0` byte to this address. All of these you may see in the last four lines of code above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you may remember, the return value of a system call is stored in the `rax` register. To write the zero byte into the buffer right after the user input, we just need to take the pointer to the beginning of this buffer, add an offset to it (which is equal to the length of the user input), and add the `0` byte to this address. All of these you can see in the last four lines of the code above.
```

> Now we have buffer with the string values and this means that we can start to convert them to the floating point numbers. We will see how to do it in the next section!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have a buffer with the string values. This means that we can start converting them to floating-point numbers. We will see how to do it in the next section!
```

Our result is ready 🎉 🎉 🎉 The last remaining thing to do - is to print the result. We will do using the [printf](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/printf.3.html) function to simplify our program:

```assembly
        ;; Specify reference to the format string for the printf(3) in the rdi register.
        mov rdi, PRINTF_FORMAT
        ;; Number of arguments of the floating-point registers passed as arguments
        ;; to printf(3). We specify - `1` because we need to pass only `xmm0` with
        ;; the result of the program.
        mov rax, 1
        ;; Call the printf(3) function that will print the result.
        call printf

        ;; Exit from the program.
        jmp _exit
```

Now, let's build our program with the usual commands:

```bash
$ nasm -g -f elf64 -o dot_product.o dot_product.asm
$ ld -dynamic-linker /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 -lc dot_product.o -o dot_product
```

Then, try to run it:

```
$ ./dot_product 
Input first vector: 2.5 3.17
Input second vector: 4.22 100.1
Dot product = 327.867000
```

Works as expected 🎉🎉🎉

## Conclusion

> In this chapter, we have seen how to work with a floating-point data and got familiar with more assembly instructions. Of course, this small post didn't cover all the details related to this big topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this chapter, we have seen how to work with floating-point data and got familiar with more assembly instructions. Of course, this post didn't cover all the details related to this topic.
```

| Multiplication | Result | Integral part | Fractional part |
|----------------|--------|---------------|-----------------|
|      0.625 * 2 |   1.25 |             1 |            0.25 |
|       0.25 * 2 |    0.5 |             0 |             0.5 |
|        0.5 * 2 |      1 |             1 |               0 |

To get the binary representation, we just write down all the integral parts that we got during the calculations. Integral parts for `0.625` are `1`, `0`, and `1`, which gives us `0b0.101` in binary. As a result, a binary representation of our floating point number `5.625` is `0b101.101`.

As you practice converting decimal floating-point numbers to binary, you'll soon notice an interesting pattern: not all fractional parts can be represented in binary. For example, let's take a look at the binary representation of the fractional part of the number `5.575`:

| Multiplication | Result | Integral part | Fractional part |
|----------------|--------|---------------|-----------------|
|      0.575 * 2 |   1.15 |             1 |            0.15 |
|       0.15 * 2 |   0.30 |             0 |            0.30 |
|       0.30 * 2 |   0.60 |             0 |            0.60 |

> |       0.60.* 2 |   1.20 |             1 |            0.20 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|       0.60 * 2 |   1.20 |             1 |            0.20 |
```

- `fld` - Loads a floating point value.
- `fst` - Stores a floating point value.

These instructions are used by the `x87 FPU` unit to store and load the floating-point numbers at/from the stack.

To work with the `XMM` registers, the `x86_64` CPU supports, among others, the following data transfer instructions:

- `movss` - Moves a single-precision floating-point value between the `XMM` registers or between an `XMM` register and memory.
- `movsd` - Moves double-precision floating-point value between the `XMM` registers or between an `XMM` register and memory.
- `movhlps` - Moves two-packed single-precision floating-point values from the high quadword of an `XMM` register to the low quadword of another `XMM` register.
- `movlhps` - Moves two-packed single-precision floating-point values from the low quadword of an `XMM` register to the high quadword of another `XMM` register.

### Floating-point arithmetic instructions

The floating-point arithmetic instructions perform arithmetic operations, such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, on single or double-precision floating-point values. The following floating-point arithmetic instructions exist:

> - `addss` - Adds a single-precision floating-point values.
> - `addsd` - Adds a double-precision floating point values.
> - `subss` - Subtracts a single-precision floating-point values.
> - `subsd` - Subtracts a double-precision floating-point values.
> - `mulss` - Multiplies a single-precision floating-point values.
> - `mulsd` - Multiplies a double-precision floating-point values.
> - `divss` - Divides a single-precision floating-point values.
> - `divsd` - Divides a double-precision floating-point values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `addss` - Adds single-precision floating-point values.
- `addsd` - Adds double-precision floating point values.
- `subss` - Subtracts single-precision floating-point values.
- `subsd` - Subtracts double-precision floating-point values.
- `mulss` - Multiplies single-precision floating-point values.
- `mulsd` - Multiplies double-precision floating-point values.
- `divss` - Divides single-precision floating-point values.
- `divsd` - Divides double-precision floating-point values.
```

All of these instructions expect two operands to execute the given operation of addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division. After the operation is executed, the result is stored in the first operand.

> ### Floating-Point control instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Floating-point control instructions
```

> As we already know, the main goal of these instructions is to manage the control flow of our programs. For integer comparisons, we used the `cmp` instruction. But this instruction does not work with floating-point values, even though the result of the comparison is controlled by the same `rflags` registers that we saw in the [Data manipulation](./asm_4.md#control-transfer-instructions) chapter. The general instruction to compare floating-point numbers is `cmpss`. Instead of setting the value of the flag based on the result comparison, the instruction stores the result of the comparison in the destination register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we already know, the main goal of these instructions is to manage the control flow of our programs. For integer comparisons, we used the `cmp` instruction. However, this instruction does not work with floating-point values, even though the result of the comparison is controlled by the same `rflags` registers that we saw in the [Data manipulation](./asm_4.md#control-transfer-instructions) chapter. The general instruction to compare floating-point numbers is `cmpss`. Instead of setting the value of the flag based on the result comparison, the instruction stores the result of the comparison in the destination register.
```

For example:

```assembly

> ;; Compare xmm0 < xmm1 and store the result in the xmm0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
;; Compare if xmm0 < xmm1 and store the result in xmm0
```

cmpss xmm0, xmm1, 0x1
```

> The third operand of the instruction, identifies the operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third operand of the instruction identifies the operator:
```

| 3rd operand value | Meaning                                                                |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                 0 | ==                                                                     |
|                 1 | <                                                                      |
|                 2 | <=                                                                     |
|                 3 | Check that one of operands is [Nan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NaN) |
|                 4 | !=                                                                     |
|                 5 | >=                                                                     |
|                 6 | >                                                                      |
|                 7 | Checks that both operands are [Nan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NaN) |

## Example

> After we got familiar with the basics of the new topic, it's time to write some code. This time, we will try to write a program which reads the user input, builds two [vectors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_(mathematics_and_physics)) of floating-point numbers based on it, and calculates the [dot product](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot_product) of these two vectors. This operation is widely used in machine learning. It will be interesting to try to implement it using the assembly programming language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After we got familiar with the basics of the new topic, it's time to write some code. This time, we will try to write a program which reads the user input, builds two [vectors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_(mathematics_and_physics)) of floating-point numbers based on it, and calculates the [dot product](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot_product) of these two vectors. This operation is widely used in machine learning. It will be interesting to implement it using the assembly programming language.
```

        ;; Prompt for the second vector
        SECOND_INPUT_MSG: db "Input the second vector: "
        ;; Length of the prompt for the second vector
        SECOND_INPUT_MSG_LEN equ 25
        ;; Error message to print if the number of items in the vectors is not the same.
        ERROR_MSG: db "Error: the number of values in vectors should be the same", 0xA, 0
        ;; Length of the error message.
        ERROR_MSG_LEN equ 59
        ;; Format string for the result
        PRINTF_FORMAT: db "Dot product = %f", 0xA, 0
```

This is similar to what we defined in our previous programs, but with some differences. First, we will use not only the [sys_write](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/write.2.html) and [sys_exit](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/_exit.2.html) system calls, but also [sys_read](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/read.2.html). We do this because we are going to read user input to build our vectors. Besides the system call identifiers, in the `.data` section definition, we can also see:

- The prompt messages used when asking a user to input data for vectors
- The error message to print
- Parameters of the buffer used to store the user input

> After defining the data that we may initialize, we need to define uninitialized variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After defining the data that we can initialize, we need to define uninitialized variables:
```

        vector_2: resq MAX_ELEMS

        ;; Buffer to store input for the first vector
        buffer_1: resq BUFFER_SIZE
        ;; Pointer within the `buffer_1` which points to the current position
        ;; that we use to parse floating point numbers
        end_buffer_1: resq 1

        ;; Buffer to store input for the second vector
        buffer_2: resq BUFFER_SIZE
        ;; Pointer within the `buffer_2` which points to the current position
        ;; that we use to parse floating point numbers
        end_buffer_2: resq 1
```

In the `.bss` section, we define:

- Two buffers for the vectors
- Two buffers for the user input
- Two pointers to the current position within the buffers with the user input

The last parameter here is the most interesting. To simplify our job, we will use the functions from the [C standard library](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_standard_library). One of such functions is [strtod](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/strtod.3.html), which converts the given string to a floating point number. It takes two parameters:

- Input string which should be converted to a floating point number

> - The pointer that will point to the first character after the parsed number within the string specified by the parameter above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The pointer to the first character after the parsed number within the string specified by the parameter above
```

        pxor xmm1, xmm1
        ;; Current rdx contains the number of floating-point values within the vectors.
        ;; Multiply it by 8 using shift left operation to get the number of bytes 
        ;; occupied by these values.
        sal rdx, 3
;; Calculate the the dot product in the loop.
_loop:
        ;; Move the floating-point value from the first vector to the xmm0 register.
        movsd xmm0, [rdi + rax]
        ;; Multiply the floating-point value from the second vector by the value from the first vector
        ;; and store the result in the xmm0 register.
        mulsd xmm0, [rsi + rax]
        ;; Move to the next floating-point values in the vector buffers.
        add rax, 8
        ;; Add the result of multiplying the floating-point values from the two vectors into the xmm1 register.
        addsd xmm1, xmm0
        ;; Check if we went through all the floating-point values in the vector buffers.
        cmp rax, rdx
        ;; If not, repeat the loop.
        jne _loop
        ;; Move the result to the xmm0 register.
        movapd xmm0, xmm1
        ;; Return from the `_dot_product` back to the `_calculate_dot_product`.
        ret
```

> At the beginning of the function, we prepare the `rax` and `xmm1` registers by resetting them to zero. The `rax` register will contain the offset within the vector buffers, and the `xmm1` register will accumulate the result of our program. The number of floating-point values within the vectors is stored in the `rdx` register. Since we will move the pointer within the buffers, we need to know how many bytes occupied by these values. To do this we multiple the value of the `rdx` register by `8`. To do this we use the `sal` instruction which executes [arithmetic left shift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic_shift) on the given operand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the beginning of the function, we prepare the `rax` and `xmm1` registers by resetting them to zero. The `rax` register will contain the offset within the vector buffers, and the `xmm1` register will accumulate the result of our program. The number of floating-point values within the vectors is stored in the `rdx` register. Since we will move the pointer within the buffers, we need to know how many bytes are occupied by these values. To do this, we multiply the value of the `rdx` register by `8` using the `sal` instruction, which executes [arithmetic left shift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic_shift) on the given operand.
```

1. To parse data for the second vector we will use separate buffers - `buffer_2`, `end_buffer_2`, and `vector_2`. 
2. To store the number of values within the second vector, we will use the `r15` register instead of `r14`.

If you feel not self-sure, you can find the whole code [here](https://github.com/0xAX/asm/blob/master/float/dot_product.asm).

### Calculation of the dot product

We have two buffers with floating-point numbers - `vector_1` and `vector_2`. This is all the data that we need to calculate the dot product of two vectors. Let's do it!

```assembly
;; Prepare to calculate the dot product of the two vectors.
_calculate_dot_product:
        ;; Check if the number of items in our vectors is not equal.
        test r14, r15
        ;; Print an error and exit if not.
        jle _error

        ;; Set address of the first vector to the rdi register.
        mov rdi, vector_1
        ;; Set address of the second vector to the rdi register.
        mov rsi, vector_2
        ;; Set the number of values within the vectors to the rdx register.
        mov rdx, r14
        ;; Calculate the dot product of the two vectors.
        call _dot_product
```

> Before the calculation of the dot product of two vectors we must be sure that both vectors have the same number of components. The number of components of the first vector we stored in the `r14` register and the number of components of the second vector we stored in the `r15` register. Let's' compare them and if they are not equal, let's print error and exit. The error printing and the exit from the program should be already familiar to you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before calculating the dot product of two vectors, we must be sure that both vectors have the same number of components. The number of components of the first vector is stored in the `r14` register, and the number of components of the second vector is stored in the `r15` register. Let’s check if these values are equal; if not, we will print an error message and exit the program. The error-printing and program exit process should already be familiar to you:
```

```assembly
;; Print an error and exit.
_error:
        ;; Set the length of the prompt string to print.
        mov rdx, ERROR_MSG_LEN
        ;; Specify the system call number (1 is `sys_write`).
        mov rax, SYS_WRITE
        ;; Set the first argument of `sys_write` to 1 (`stdout`).
        mov rdi, STD_OUT
        ;; Set the second argument of `sys_write` to the reference of the prompt string to print.
        mov rsi, ERROR_MSG
        ;; Call the `sys_write` system call.
        syscall
        ;; Exit from the program
        jmp _exit

;; Exit from the program.
_exit:  
    ;; Specify the number of the system call (60 is `sys_exit`).
    mov rax, SYS_EXIT
    ;; Set the first argument of `sys_exit` to 0. The 0 status code is success.
    mov rdi, EXIT_CODE
    ;; Call the `sys_exit` system call.
    syscall
```

> If our data is good, we can proceed to calculation. To do that we store the address of both our vectors in the `rdi` and `rsi` registers, and put the number of components within the vectors into the `rdx` register. The `_dot_product` function does the main job. Let's take a look at the code of this function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When both vectors have the same number of components, we can proceed to the calculation. To do that, we store the addresses of both vectors in the `rdi` and `rsi` registers, and put the number of components within the vectors into the `rdx` register. The `_dot_product` function does the main job. Let's take a look at the code of this function:
```

```assembly
;; Calculate the dot product of the two vectors.
_dot_product:
        ;; Reset the value of the rax register to 0.
        xor rax, rax
        ;; Reset the value of the xmm1 register to 0.
        pxor xmm1, xmm1
        ;; Current rdx contains the number of floating-point values within the vectors.
        ;; Multiply it by 8 to get the number of bytes occupied by these values.

>         sal rdx, 3

Reviewer: Leave a comment what `sal` instruction does. Why `3`?

Author: added

;; Calculate the the dot product in the loop.
_loop:
        ;; Move the floating-point value from the first vector to the xmm0 register.
        movsd xmm0, [rdi + rax]

>         ;; Multiply the floating-point from the second vector to the value from the first vector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; Multiply the floating-point value from the second vector by the value from the first vector
```

        ;; and store the result in the xmm0 register.
        mulsd xmm0, [rsi + rax]
        ;; Move to the next floating-point values in the vector buffers.
        add rax, 8

>         ;; Add the result of multiplication of floating-point values from the vectors in the
>         ;; xmm1 register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; Add the result of multiplying the floating-point values from the two vectors into the xmm1 register
```

        addsd xmm1, xmm0
        ;; Check if we went through all the floating-point values in the vector buffers.
        cmp rax, rdx

>         ;; If not yet - repeat the loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; If not, repeat the loop.
```

        jne _loop
        ;; Move the result to the xmm0 register.
        movapd xmm0, xmm1

>         ;; Return from the _dot_product back to the `_calculate_dot_product`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; Return from the `_dot_product` back to the `_calculate_dot_product`.
```

        ret
```

> In the beginning of the function we prepare the `rax` and `xmm1` registers by resetting them to zero. The `rax` register will contain the offset within the vector buffers and the `xmm1` will be accumulator which will accumulates result of our program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the beginning of the function, we prepare the `rax` and `xmm1` registers by resetting them to zero. The `rax` register will contain the offset within the vector buffers, and the `xmm1` register will accumulate the result of our program.
```

> All the calculation of the dot products of our two vectors happens within the loop identified by the `_loop` label. In the first instruction after this label, we store the current value from the first vector in the register `xmm0`. After this we multiple this value by the current value from the second vector. Remember that both vectors are pointed by the `rdi` and `rsi` register and the `rax` register stores the offset within this buffers that pointer to the current value we need to process. As we did the first multiplication, we increase the value of the `rax` to eight bytes to move to the next values within the vector buffers. In the same time we update our accumulator with the intermediate result of the dot product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dot product calculation takes place inside the loop labeled `_loop`. In the first instruction of this label, we put the current value from the first vector into the `xmm0` register. Next, we multiply this value by the current value from the second vector. The two vectors are pointed by the `rdi` and `rsi` registers, and the `rax` register stores the offset within these buffers that points to the current value we need to process. After performing the multiplication, we increase the value of the `rax` to eight bytes to move to the next values within the vector buffers. At the same time, we update our accumulator with the intermediate result of the dot product.
```

> At this point, the `xmm1` register will have the result of multiplication of the fist components of our vectors. At the next step we check that - did we reach the end of vectors and if not we repeat the loop for the second components, third, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the `xmm1` register stores the multiplication result of the first components of our vectors. Now we must check if we reached the end of vectors; if not, we repeat the loop for the second component, third, and so on.
```

> 

Reviewer: I would remove this line break and join these paragraphs into one

Author: Done

> As soon as we reached the end of the vectors, we store the result in the `xmm0` register and return from the `_dot_product` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as we reach the end of the vectors, we put the result into the `xmm0` register and return from the `_dot_product` function.
```

> Our result is ready 🎉 🎉 🎉 The last remaining thing to do - is to print the result. We will do using the [printf](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/printf.3.html) function to simplify our program:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our result is ready 🎉 🎉 🎉 The last thing to do is to print it. We will do it using the [printf](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/printf.3.html) function to simplify our program:
```

```assembly

>         ;; Specify reference to the format string for the printf(3) in the rdi register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; Specify a reference to the format string for the printf(3) in the rdi register.
```

        mov rdi, PRINTF_FORMAT
        ;; Number of arguments of the floating-point registers passed as arguments

>         ;; to printf(3). We specify - `1` because we need to pass only `xmm0` with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; to printf(3). We specify `1` because we need to pass only `xmm0` with
```

Reviewer: It still doesn't tell me why 1 :(

        ;; the result of the program.
        mov rax, 1
        ;; Call the printf(3) function that will print the result.
        call printf

        ;; Exit from the program.
        jmp _exit
```

Now, let's build our program with the usual commands:

```bash
$ nasm -g -f elf64 -o dot_product.o dot_product.asm
$ ld -dynamic-linker /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 -lc dot_product.o -o dot_product
```

> Then, try to run it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, let's run it:
```
